docs/concepts/tracking.rst, before:

.. _tracking:

=============
Tracking Burr
=============

.. note::

    Burr's telemetry system is built in and easy to integrate. It allows you to understand
    the flow of your application, and watch it make decisions in real time. You can run it
    with sample projects by running ``burr`` in the terminal after ``pip install "burr[start]"``.

Burr comes with a telemetry system that allows tracking a variety of information for debugging,
both in development and production.

The data model for tracking is simple:

1. **Projects** are the top-level grouping of data (the first page). This is specified in the constructor for the
   :py:meth:`with_tracker <burr.core.application.ApplicationBuilder.with_tracker>`, as the only required argument.
2. **Applications** get logged to projects. An application would be considered similar to a "trace" in distributed
   tracing systems. This is (optionally) specified as the ``app_id`` argument for the :py:meth:`with_tracker <burr.core.application.ApplicationBuilder.with_tracker>`
   method. A single ``application`` has shared state path across all its steps.
3. **Steps** are the individual steps that are executed in the state machine. The Burr UI will show the state of the
   state machine at the time of the step execution, as well as the input to and results of the step.

.. _trackingclientref:

---------------
Tracking Client
---------------

When you use :py:meth:`with_tracker <burr.core.application.ApplicationBuilder.with_tracker>`, you add a tracker to Burr.
This is a lifecycle hook that does the following:

#. Logs the static representation of the state machine
#. Logs any information before/after step execution, including
    - The step name
    - The step input
    - The state at time of execution
    - The timestamps

This currently defaults to (and only supports) the :py:class:`LocalTrackingClient <burr.tracking.LocalTrackingClient>` class, which
writes to a local file system, although we will be making it pluggable in the future. It will, by default, write to the directory
``~/.burr``.

Debugging via Reloading Prior State
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Because the tracking client writes to the file system, you can reload the state of the state machine at any time. This is
useful for debugging, because you can quickly recreate the issue by running the state machine with the same point in time.

To do so, you'd use the classmethod _load()_ on the :py:class:`LocalTrackingClient <burr.tracking.LocalTrackingClient>`.

For example, to debug your Burr Application, you'd have some control flow like this using the `.initialize_from(...)` and `fork_from_*` functionality:

.. code-block:: python

    from burr.tracking import LocalTrackingClient

    prior_app_id = ... # some value
    sequence_id = ... # None or some prior step
    partition_key = "SOME_VALUE" # use None if not using a partition key

    project_name = "PROJECT_NAME"
    tracker = LocalTrackingClient(project=project_name)
    app = (
        ApplicationBuilder()
        .with_graph(base_graph) # your graph
        .initialize_from(
            tracker, # local tracker above
            resume_at_next_action=True,
            default_state={}, # your default state
            default_entrypoint="SOME_DEFAULT", # your default entry point
            fork_from_app_id=prior_app_id,
            fork_from_sequence_id=sequence_id,
            fork_from_partition_key=partition_key
        )
        .with_tracker(tracker)  # tracking + checkpointing; one line 🪄.
        .build()
    )

---------------
Tracking Server
---------------

The tracking server (now) is meant for visualizing the state machine and the steps that have been executed. You can
run it with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    burr

This will start a server on port 7241, and open up a browser window with the UI for you to explore.


Using Burr in Google Collab
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If you run Burr in Google Collab, you can use the following code to expose the Burr UI to your browser:

.. code-block:: python

    # in one cell - expose the port:
    from google.colab import output
    output.serve_kernel_port_as_window(7241)

.. code-block:: bash

    # in another cell - start burr: (! denotes a command line call)
    !burr &
    # now click the localhost:7241 from the prior cell.
    # It should open up a new tab with the burr UI!

Commit message:

added magic to launch burr ui

docs/concepts/tracking.rst, after:

.. _tracking:

=============
Tracking Burr
=============

.. note::

    Burr's telemetry system is built in and easy to integrate. It allows you to understand
    the flow of your application, and watch it make decisions in real time. You can run it
    with sample projects by running ``burr`` in the terminal after ``pip install "burr[start]"``.

Burr comes with a telemetry system that allows tracking a variety of information for debugging,
both in development and production.

The data model for tracking is simple:

1. **Projects** are the top-level grouping of data (the first page). This is specified in the constructor for the
   :py:meth:`with_tracker <burr.core.application.ApplicationBuilder.with_tracker>`, as the only required argument.
2. **Applications** get logged to projects. An application would be considered similar to a "trace" in distributed
   tracing systems. This is (optionally) specified as the ``app_id`` argument for the :py:meth:`with_tracker <burr.core.application.ApplicationBuilder.with_tracker>`
   method. A single ``application`` has shared state path across all its steps.
3. **Steps** are the individual steps that are executed in the state machine. The Burr UI will show the state of the
   state machine at the time of the step execution, as well as the input to and results of the step.

.. _trackingclientref:

---------------
Tracking Client
---------------

When you use :py:meth:`with_tracker <burr.core.application.ApplicationBuilder.with_tracker>`, you add a tracker to Burr.
This is a lifecycle hook that does the following:

#. Logs the static representation of the state machine
#. Logs any information before/after step execution, including
    - The step name
    - The step input
    - The state at time of execution
    - The timestamps

This currently defaults to (and only supports) the :py:class:`LocalTrackingClient <burr.tracking.LocalTrackingClient>` class, which
writes to a local file system, although we will be making it pluggable in the future. It will, by default, write to the directory
``~/.burr``.

Debugging via Reloading Prior State
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Because the tracking client writes to the file system, you can reload the state of the state machine at any time. This is
useful for debugging, because you can quickly recreate the issue by running the state machine with the same point in time.

To do so, you'd use the classmethod _load()_ on the :py:class:`LocalTrackingClient <burr.tracking.LocalTrackingClient>`.

For example, to debug your Burr Application, you'd have some control flow like this using the `.initialize_from(...)` and `fork_from_*` functionality:

.. code-block:: python

    from burr.tracking import LocalTrackingClient

    prior_app_id = ... # some value
    sequence_id = ... # None or some prior step
    partition_key = "SOME_VALUE" # use None if not using a partition key

    project_name = "PROJECT_NAME"
    tracker = LocalTrackingClient(project=project_name)
    app = (
        ApplicationBuilder()
        .with_graph(base_graph) # your graph
        .initialize_from(
            tracker, # local tracker above
            resume_at_next_action=True,
            default_state={}, # your default state
            default_entrypoint="SOME_DEFAULT", # your default entry point
            fork_from_app_id=prior_app_id,
            fork_from_sequence_id=sequence_id,
            fork_from_partition_key=partition_key
        )
        .with_tracker(tracker)  # tracking + checkpointing; one line 🪄.
        .build()
    )

---------------
Tracking Server
---------------

The tracking server (now) is meant for visualizing the state machine and the steps that have been executed. You can
run it with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    burr

This will start a server on port 7241, and open up a browser window with the UI for you to explore.


Launch Burr UI from a notebook
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can launch the Burr UI from a notebook or Google Colab using the ``%burr_ui`` "IPython magic".
This will print the URL to access the Burr UI web app.

.. code-block:: python

    # in one cell - expose the port:
    %load_ext burr.integrations.notebook
    %burr_ui

    "Burr UI: http://127.0.0.1:7241"
